README.md, before:

# napf
[`nanoflann`](https://github.com/jlblancoc/nanoflann) wrappers for python and maybe fortran.

## python
As `nanoflann` offers template classes, separate classes are implemented in `napf` for each ___{datatype, data dimension, distance metric}___. All the search functions are equipped with multi-thread execution. Uses [`numpy.ndarray`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.html) for data input and output.  
Currently, the combinations of following options are supported:
- `data type`: {__double__, __float__, __int__, __long__}  _(corresponds to {np.float64, np.float32, np.int32, np.int64})_
- `data dimension`: {__1__, __2__, __3__, __4__, __5__, __6__, __7__, __8__, __9__, __10__}
- `distance metric`: {__L1__, __L2__}

### quick start
```python
import napf
import numpy as np

data = <data in 2D array>
queries = <query points in 2D array>

kdt = napf.KDT(tree_data=data, metric=1)

indices, distances = kdt.knn_search(
    queries=queries,
    kneighbors=3,
    nthread=4,
)
...
```

## fortran
maybe...

Commit message:

make sure stdc++ is linked
and version += 0.0.1

README.md, after:

# napf
[`nanoflann`](https://github.com/jlblancoc/nanoflann) wrappers for python and maybe fortran.

## python
As `nanoflann` offers template classes, separate classes are implemented in `napf` for each ___{datatype, data dimension, distance metric}___. All the search functions are equipped with multi-thread execution. Uses [`numpy.ndarray`](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.ndarray.html) for data input and output.  
Currently, the combinations of following options are supported:
- `data type`: {__double__, __float__, __int__, __long__}  _(corresponds to {np.float64, np.float32, np.int32, np.int64})_
- `data dimension`: {__1__, __2__, __3__, __4__, __5__, __6__, __7__, __8__, __9__, __10__}
- `distance metric`: {__L1__, __L2__}

### quick start
__install with pip:__  
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install napf
```
_Note: in case your system requires a dynamic build, you need a c++11 compatible c++ compiler. To make sure a correct compiler is chosen, set `export CC=<your-c-compiler> CXX=<your-c++-compiler>`_

```python
import napf
import numpy as np

data = <data in 2D array>
queries = <query points in 2D array>

kdt = napf.KDT(tree_data=data, metric=1)

indices, distances = kdt.knn_search(
    queries=queries,
    kneighbors=3,
    nthread=4,
)
...
```

## fortran
maybe...
